Interviewer: What are IMMOs opening hours?
Interviewee:Our team is at your disposal in the following hours:
Monday – Friday 10:00 am – 6:00 pm
Saturday: Closed
Sunday: Closed
You can reach us using the in-app chat.
Interviewer: How can I contact IMMO outside business hours for urgent matters?
Interviewee:Our team is always available in working hours, however we are not best equipped to help you in emergencies or urgent matters, such as:
-Water Damage e.g. Water runs through the ceiling, water marks on walls, big leakage in the apartment
- Clogging in the bathroom or kitchen e.g. toilet is clogged, water is running over
- Being locked out of your property 
We would kindly ask you to get in touch with an emergency service just outside from IMMOs business hours. 
Note: If you are using the emergency service, please kindly prepay the costs for the emergency service yourself. After that, please do send us the invoice for the costs incurred so we may check it for any reimbursements, if the cost is something for which we are liable.
Interviewer:When do I have to transfer the security deposit?
Interviewee:The security deposit needs to be visible in our bank account five working days before the planned key handover appointment for your move into your property.
If the security deposit is not on our bank account, then we can’t promise that we will be able to hand over the keys on the day we originally agreed, and we may have to move our appointment. 
Interviewer:Is it possible to transfer the deposit in installments?
Interviewee:Yes! It’s possible to transfer the security deposit in three installments.  The first part needs to be paid five working days before the key handover appointment. The further payments need to be paid with the immediately following rental payments.
Interviewer:Where do I have to transfer the deposit?
Interviewee:You will find the bank account details for the security deposit by tapping “How to Pay” button under “Pay your security deposit” on the home screen of the app. This screen is currently only available prior to your move into the property.
Interviewer:What happens to my deposit once it is transferred?
Interviewee:We will have the deposit stored in a separate, safe, escrow account.
Interviewer: When will I get my security deposit back after moving out?
Interviewee:We will send you back the security deposit after making any necessary deductions. We may deduct the following payments from your security deposit:
Rental arrears 
Damages for which you are liable to the apartment or the furniture of the apartment
If there are no deductions to be made, then you will get a larger portion of the deposit paid back within six weeks of the end of your tenancy agreement.  We also set aside an amount for unsettled operational costs in the deposit account. Usually this amount is three times the monthly costs of the utilities advance payments per year. 


Interviewer:When do I have to transfer the rent?
Interviewee:The first total rent needs to be in our bank account five working days before the planned key handover appointment for your move into the property. 
Your next rent payments are payable monthly in advance. Please make sure your rent is paid no later than the third working day of the month.
The rent payment due date will start appearing on the home screen of your app closer to the date. 
You can also find all information about the rent payment in your tenancy agreement, in §4.
Interviewer:Where do I have to transfer the rent?
Interviewee:The bank details for rent payment will be accessible from the “Upcoming” section on the home screen of the app closer to the rent due date.
This information is also indicated in your tenancy agreement. You’ll find all details about your rent payment in §4 of your tenancy agreement. 

Interviewer:What happens if I don’t pay my rent on time?
Interviewee:Please get in touch with us using the report issue feature as soon as possible if you cannot pay your rent on time.
Please note if you don’t pay your rent, then this might result in a termination of your tenancy agreement, or other fees - please see §4 Abs. 2 of your tenancy agreement for details.

Interviewer:Final cleaning fee
Interviewee:You’ll receive your apartment clean, and we’d similarly ask you to leave it professionally cleaned at the end of your stay. If you’d like, we can arrange this for you, for a cleaning fee of 120€.
If you’d like to have cleaning done by us, we’d ask you to please let us know at least 14 working days before the last day of your tenancy agreement, and we’d ask you to pay the cleaning fee 3 working days before the appointment for your move out of the apartment. You can find more information about the final cleaning in §13 of your tenancy agreement.

If you take care of the cleaning by yourself, please leave the apartment as clean as you received it. If the apartment is not clean enough, we will have the apartment cleaned again using a professional cleaning service. The costs for the professional cleaning will be deducted from your deposit if needed. 

Interviewer:When can the move-in / key handover take place?
Interviewee:The handover of the apartment takes place on the first day of the tenancy agreement. Your Resident Manager will reach out to you to arrange the handover appointment.
Please note that if the start date of the tenancy agreement is on a bank holiday or on the weekend, then the handover will be done on the next working day. 

Interviewer:What happens at the key handover appointment?
Interviewee:We will meet you at the apartment to greet you, hand over the keys to your new home, and walk you through your apartment together. We’ll also thoroughly check the state of the apartment, and create a handover protocol to document it.
Interviewer:Where can I find my handover protocol?
Interviewee:We will upload the handover protocol into the app so that you may access it any time.
Interviewer: Do I have to register independently with the electricity, water and gas supplier?

Interviewee:Yes, you will need to connect your utilities yourself. Please reach out to us using the report issue feature under support if you need any help with this. 
If you live in the state of Hamburg, you can benefit from our partnership with the electricity provider Hamburg Energie - you can receive a credit of 50€.
Please follow this link if you are interested to register: https://www.hamburgenergie.de/insta-immo-strom/ 
Interviewer:What should I do if I am facing an issue in the apartment?
Interviewee:Please get in touch with us using the report issue feature under support  if you face any issues in your apartment, and we will be happy to help you.
To help us help you as quickly as possible, please include a detailed description of the issue you’re facing, and any photos or videos that may help us understand the issue better.

Interviewer:May I drill holes in the apartment?
Interviewee:You are allowed to drill a reasonable amount of holes in the walls. When doing so, please be careful not to drill into any water pipes or electricity installations. Please also note that you shouldn’t drill holes into anything that cannot be easily restored to its original condition, such as tiles, windows, or door frames. If you do drill holes into walls, please make sure to cover them and paint them over before you move out of your home.

Interviewer:May I paint the walls in my apartment?
Interviewee:Yes! Please however make sure to return the apartment in the same condition as you received it, including wall colours. 
Interviewer:. May I keep pets in the apartment?
Interviewee:We will have to approve your request to stay with your animal friends in your apartment. If you haven’t done so before signing the tenancy agreement, please get in touch with us using the report issue feature under support to ask about keeping a pet. Please also note that our approval can be refused or withdrawn if another resident or neighbor is affected by the animal.
Interviewer:May I sublet the apartment?
Interviewee:Please get in touch with us using the report issue feature under support if you are considering subletting your apartment. You cannot sublet the apartment without our explicit permission.
Please let us know why you want to sublet your apartment, to whom you would like to sublet your apartment and for how long. 
We will then get back to you regarding your sublet request. 

Interviewer:How should I proceed if I want to terminate the tenancy agreement with IMMO?
Interviewee:Please get in touch with us using the  report issue feature under supportif you are thinking about terminating your tenancy agreement.
Please note: Once you pass the initial minimum stay period, then the usual termination period is three months to the end of the month.

Interviewer:How should I proceed if I have to terminate the rental agreement before the end of the minimum stay period?
Interviewee:Please get in touch with us using the  report issue feature under supportif you are thinking about terminating your rental contract before the end of the minimum stay period. While there is no contractual option to do so, we are happy to chat with you to find any possible arrangements
Interviewer:In which condition do I have to hand the apartment over?
Interviewee:We’d ask you to please leave the apartment in the same condition in which you received it, and without any of your personal belongings. If there are major signs of use, such as scratches or stains, then we’d ask you to please leave the apartment freshly painted in the same colours in which you received it.
Interviewer:Do I have to make the apartments available for viewings after giving my termination notice?
Interviewee:Yes, we would ask you to make your apartment available for viewings. We will get in contact with you and will discuss possible viewing appointments with you.
The viewing can take place on weekdays between 9:00 – 13:00 as well as between 15:00 – 20:00 and on Saturday 9:00 – 13:00 as well as between 15:00 – 18:00.
Interviewer:Does IMMO have any other apartments available at the moment?
Interviewee:We may have other apartments available - please take a look at our listings on the link below, and please let us know if you’d like to view any of them.
https://www.immobilienscout24.de/anbieter/profil/insta-immo-gmbh-22769-hamburg